Welcome to the blog.
I am your host, Craig Winn,
and this handsome fellow over here,
he is the co-host.
This is the indomitable Wookie.
We're here to continue our story on the
last word picture.
We're reviewing what is said in the eighty
ninth Mizmowr.
And to set the scene for what is
transpiring here,
this is really the fulcrum.
of human existence.
I would go so far as to say
that about the circumstances surrounding
this song.
You see, all the way from the beginning,
all the way back to the garden,
six thousand years ago,
Yahowah was first born.
Someone he just called the man,
the first individual that Yahowah conceived
in his image, giving him both a nephesh,
which is consciousness,
which all animals have, and uniquely,
a Neshamah, a conscience,
the ability to intelligently relate to
him.
we started an episode that was quite the
experiment between God and man.
He wondered,
was it possible for a life form to
be able to relate to him in a
way that was productive,
that was enjoyable, that was useful,
that was incremental and beneficial to his
existence and to ours?
And so God created a microcosm of the
earth in Eden,
a place that was particularly conducive
and uniquely beneficial to sustain life.
And he placed his firstborn,
this man called the man, Ha-Adam,
in that place.
And they began an interesting
relationship,
just that it didn't materialize as God had
hoped.
Now,
I'm sure you haven't heard that unless
you've listened to these programs that
Adam was a bit of a flop.
And it's because the man didn't have the
energy, the strength,
sense of curiosity, of observation,
of thoughtfulness,
certainly of responsiveness,
and of reliability.
To earn God's trust such that this
experiment in the enclosed confines of
Eden could be allowed to grow beyond that,
such that this one creature
could be given incremental dimensions,
be enveloped not in a limiting physical
body, but enclosed his soul in light,
such that he could go off and explore
the universe with Yahowah,
travel through the dimensions in time.
And for that to happen,
he was going to have to find someone,
a life form that was
observant, responsive, thoughtful,
one that was absolutely willing and
enthusiastic about engaging with him,
and then someone he could trust.
And the first man, his firstborn,
didn't measure up.
And what God realized is that he would
never have measured up to his potential if
that potential existed at all inside the
protective confines of Eden, no.
Man would have to gain experience on his
own apart from God.
He would have to observe his environment,
shape it to his survival.
engage in the process of life,
make mistakes, learn from them,
fall and get back up.
All showing that in a world full of
obstacles, challenges,
that he could pass muster,
that he could show himself worthy of being
allowed off of this wonderful planet that
is so conducive to life
such that he could explore the universe
with its creator.
And that is the story that we're examining
because it's Yahowah who caused the fall of
man to give us this opportunity.
And we've had this opportunity now for,
well, just shy of six thousand years.
That's a very long time.
And in all of that time,
there are very few people that have gained
Yahowah's attention such that he says,
yeah, that one.
one has potential,
that one I think I can work with.
This one appears thoughtful and reliable,
certainly willing to engage and
redeployable because they're dependable.
And that story progresses through
individuals like properly identifying who
Adam really was.
And I think he was Dowd.
That's firstborn.
And how he developed a relationship with
one of the more interesting men in God's
story.
One that you only know about if you
think about what caused him to learn about
Yahowah and earn God's trust.
And that would be Chanowk,
who is the one who is...
Learned,
one who is properly trained and equipped
and then deployed.
How was it that Chanowk could come to
have known about Yahowah?
At the time, there was no Towrah.
At the time,
there was only one person on the planet,
and you know, the planet at this point,
same size as it is now, but Neshamahman,
those capable of
engaging in a conversation with the
goddess, Chanowk obviously did,
they were very few individuals.
And the most prominent of them would be
the man who had come out of Eden,
now just known as the man, Adam.
And conceived right around six hundred
years into Adam's nine hundred and thirty
year life,
the last third of his life
Chanowk would have had the opportunity to
get to know Yahowah through the stories
that Adam recalled of him.
And then obviously despondent based upon
the quality of his life then versus now,
I'm sure that Yahowah appreciated Chanowk
supporting his firstborn,
which is how he earned Yahowah's trust.
There is no other meaningful way,
rational way that this can be
accomplished.
It's why I began to look at all
things from the perspective of who are
these people?
What are their similarities?
How are certain souls redeployed through
God's story?
Because it happens to be the only way,
the only way that God can affect
His people such that the pace of his
plan stays on track.
There's no other way.
And it's the ideal way.
It's exceedingly ingenious and also
extraordinarily easy for God.
In fact,
it's easier for God than any other method.
Finds people he likes working with that he
could trust.
And when it's important,
when it's really important,
he deploys them.
And of course,
there were important moments before the
fall of King Dowd,
who fell more precipitously by far than
did Adam before him.
The fall of King Dowd is the most
egregious story that appears anywhere
among the writings, prophets, Psalms,
the Towrah.
There's the only thing that even could be
compared to it is the constant embittered
antagonize them that the malcontents that
became the children of israel showed to
Yahowah during the exodus but the
difference is they never endeared
themselves to him and just stayed
embittered all the while while Down did
early in his life endure himself to Yahowah
but his fall was every event to the
extent of the children of israel to the
during the exodus he was belligerent
towards god
And it became so bad that just as
had happened with the children of Israel
during the Exodus,
God stopped talking to his people.
He would talk through Moshe,
but never directly to them again.
Still hasn't talked directly to them.
And God stopped talking to Dowd.
Anything he had to say,
he said through an intermediary.
And what he had to say was harsh.
And so God was put in quite a
predicament because if this wasn't
resolved, the entire human experience,
gone.
Nothing left of it.
The planet devolves into chaos.
Everyone dies.
None of the Mowedym are fulfilled.
There's no upcoming Shabuwah harvest,
no Taruwah gleaning,
no sacrifice of the Adamah Parah,
no remnant of Yisrael.
no return of our Messiah or God,
and no restoration to the conditions of
the garden during Sukah.
None of that.
I'm not here talking to you.
You know nothing about the fulfillment of
Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym because they would not have
been fulfilled.
The covenant's benefits could not be
achieved.
It all comes down to this.
If the relationship between Dowd and
Yahowah,
which was fractured beyond even divine
repair, God couldn't resolve it.
I mean, God himself could not resolve it.
He had no interest in resolving it.
I mean,
he had an interest in resolving it,
but not himself.
He absolutely unequivocally was not
talking to Dowd,
and his message to Dowd is,
I'm going to paint the nastiest picture of
a person I can possibly conceive.
And I'm going to tell you through Nathan
that you are that man.
The trust between them was gone.
And so the only way to restore that
was through intervention.
And it becomes obvious along the way that
God has fixtures.
The first time we're confronted with this
reality,
when literally the fate of humankind is on
the line, where it's do or die.
Someone either steps up and takes
responsibility and accepts Yahowah at his
word, does what God says,
listens to him and acts accordingly,
or the entire human experience is for
naught.
You know what that moment was?
I only got part of the question.
I'm watching the stream go down.
The king of the cables is doing his
normal,
which is to monitor all of the streams
that we have as a result of this
program.
So it's unfair when I turn to him,
but it's unfair if I don't acknowledge him
being here.
If I were to have asked him that
question when he was able to listen,
as opposed to managing this program and
producing it,
he would know that the turning point of
the human experience was with Nolok.
And I'm here to tell you that if
Nolok was not redeployed,
if Nolok was not indeed the very man
that Yahowah said, he...
is a man who walks after me.
He is a man who has separated himself
from all human contrivances and someone I
can trust,
someone I want to be with me,
someone I can, as his name says, redeploy.
If he is not that man,
there is no way possible that Noach could
have known who he was
that Noah could have earned God's trust,
such that Noah could be the person God
would use to salvage the human experience.
And that is because everyone around Eden,
which is the area around the Black Sea,
upper Mesopotamia, this general area,
God referred to as Naphylym, the fallen.
And he says that they were Hamas,
vicious terrorists, overtly religious,
and there was no hope for them.
And God said, you know,
I grieve that I've even created man.
And so Yahowah found this one man,
or I should say he redeployed him.
And his life is just so telling in
this regard that he is the one who
served as the catalyst towards the worst
period of the interference of the Naphylym
as they were the expression,
the negative expression of Neshamahman,
man with a conscience.
So that God could give him explicit
instructions how to build the ark of
that would spare humans with an Neshamah.
All of him were in that region at
that time.
And he listened to God that he already
knew.
And he did what he normally does.
He does what Yahowah wants him to do.
And he built the ark and he saved
the Solomon and he,
his sons and wives delivered the future
offspring that would become Israel.
And we have affirmation that what they did
was also emblematic of the covenant.
So here we are again with a similar
story.
I don't think this is the next deployment
of Jesus.
I'm convinced that he also represents Bo'az
and that his wife represents Ruth.
And there are no fewer than a hundred
really interesting clues that bring that
to bear as they are the couple that
Yahowah chose to bring forth the kinsman
redeemer,
something they would do
waning years of the third millennia,
in advance of the fourth millennia,
when Dowd would serve as the kinsman
redeemer and fulfill Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
So by this time,
as they are now serving as surrogate
parents to Dowd,
filling the gap of really what turned out
to be
absentee parents for Dowd such that Dowd
became emblematic of Yisrael,
both good and bad, and at this time,
mostly bad.
He was given parents that Yahowah thought
could model what the now adult man,
he was probably sixty by this time,
needed to experience, needed to hear,
needed to know.
And so
We came into this story by analyzing the
last word picture,
which is the Thirty-First Mashal,
our word picture, the proverb.
And in it,
it becomes obvious that there is a woman
who is serving as Dowd's mother
And she is identified as an ‘Amah.
She is called the Ashar,
the beneficial and blessed woman.
She's called the greatest of all women.
And her husband is called Baal, husband.
And I know that there are people out
there that have a conniption fit over
that.
That's just because they're
conspiratorialists and are accustomed to
staring at a dot on the wall and
never are able to understand how the
pieces of the puzzle all fit together.
They don't know that Yahowah himself
referred to himself as Baal,
as husband of the covenant that he
established with his people.
It's a very positive term in that regard.
They don't know that one of the earliest
prophets that tried to restore the fate of
Yisrael was called Balaam.
And the role that he played and the
importance of it and that he absolutely
and unequivocally spoke for Yahowah.
I miss the fact that the covenant is
akin to a marriage.
And in a marriage, there is a...
husband and wife and the Hebrew word for
husband is Baal.
They don't understand that if Yahowah uses
terms very favorably and that they then
are misappropriated by the adversary.
Baal is one of them becoming the Lord
and master of religion.
but doesn't change the fact that it also
is very positive,
particularly in the reestablishment of the
covenant.
The same thing is true with Asher.
And Asher is the name of one of
the twelve tribes.
It is the name that Leah chose for
her stepson because she said,
as a result of him,
I'm going to be known as Asher,
the best and beneficial woman.
And God, in the thirty-first Mashal,
wants the world to know that the woman
who came to Dowd's aid as his surrogate
mother is that very woman.
Bears that title.
Her name also happens to be Leah,
but be that as it may.
The whole picture has to be understood
together.
You can't take a fragment over here and
say, oh,
I'm going to make a big deal out
of that.
It's the mentality of the stupidity of
conspiracy and why God hates it.
It's the essence of it.
It's how it has always been developed.
So these two were brought to Dowd.
And their job was to sober Dowd up,
which...
The ‘Amah did.
To resolve his issues of lethargy by
explaining to him who he was and what
his responsibilities were.
To reestablishing his awareness that he
was the very son of God, his firstborn.
And that as his firstborn,
he had responsibilities and those
responsibilities would extend at least two
lives beyond the one that he was currently
living.
wasting but like you know all arrogant and
note at this point was arrogant men
particularly men that didn't have a good
relationship with their mother
particularly men that didn't choose well
among women and had way too many that
he didn't respect
He didn't listen to his mother.
He would later,
he would reflect on everything she had to
say and it would transform his life.
But at this point, it wasn't enough.
And so the ultimate hammer,
I'm gonna get your attention right now.
And in so doing, I'm going to also,
delineate everything that the world needs
to know,
not just my son needs to know,
the world needs to know about this man,
was delivered when Ethan ha 'Ezrachy
co-authored the single greatest piece of
literature ever written with Yahowah.
It's known as the Eighty-Ninth Psalm.
And we have just come upon an amazing
statement in it.
One which I have now come to understand
as a catalyst for the entire human
experience.
And it's the story about the sun and
the moon and what they represent.
not as celestial objects,
but as what they represent.
Source of brilliant light that makes life
possible.
And the one that reflects that light,
even in the darkest hours.
Because Yahowah's first prophecy,
among his most important prophecies,
is one that
Every one in a million people,
I'm not even sure that there are as
many as one in a billion over time
that have come to recognize that it even
was a prophecy.
is the presentation of the greater and
lesser luminaries,
both of whom God said are great,
who volunteer to fulfill,
serving as the very signs of the Mowedym.
And these greater and lesser luminaries
that are presented on the fourth day
are then reflected throughout God's story.
And particularly as that story is at its
midpoint right here,
God's going to reflect our attention,
because this is God speaking,
and he's going to direct our attention
right back to those luminaries,
which this time he's gonna refer to as
the sun and the moon,
and in the beginning he referred to as
the greater and lesser luminaries.
We'll go right back to this.
And then he's going to tell us through
his prophets that three thousand years
after this,
those are still his central cast.
They are the ones who prevail in the
end.
I know we're going to get to what
I think is among the most amazing
prophecies ever written in Yirmeyah.
Jeremiah,
with the reaffirmation of the covenant.
And God tells you how that's done.
And it's with the greater and lesser
luminaries, the sun and the moon.
Or God goes all in and said,
if they don't perform as I have
instructed,
if they don't do what needs to be
done to enable your participation in the
covenant,
then there is no hope for Israel.
It's gone.
And therefore no hope for the planet.
And right now we're dealing with what
happens to the planet apart from those who
benefit from the greater and lesser
luminary.
And yes, Isaiah, Isaiah,
two chapters after the introduction of the
children and one before the introduction
to the great adversary.
Halal ben Shachar from Babylon.
Powerful statements of what's going to
happen in our future.
And so the greater luminary now in this
passage,
God introduces a greater and lesser
luminaries God introduces in this passage
regarding his son and his son's greatest
supporter,
right in the midpoint of God's story,
three thousand years from the garden,
three thousand years back to the garden.
And then he's going to bring all of
this into fruition and bring our attention
back to the role they play in the
last days.
it's quite an introduction i think i'm i'm
almost thirty minutes into our program and
i've just introduced where we are in our
program but that's the purpose of this
program now you can read
The Towrah and Prophets,
I've published them.
Now,
this happens to be a translation and
analysis that's in an unpublished book,
not because I'm trying to hide it,
but because I'm trying to finish it.
And the more I learn,
the more I need to write.
And so, you know,
it's already past eight hundred pages and
I'm still contributing to it because I've
even changed the title of it to its
now mayor, Luminaries.
because there's just so much to learn.
And we have turned a point in who
we are and what we're doing.
And that the role that I have had
for the past twenty four years,
now really a quarter of a century,
has changed ever so slightly.
Up to this point,
my intent was to learn what I could
from Yahowah about why he hates religion
and what his requests are of us if
we want to engage in the covenant
relationship and what he's offering us
through it,
such that both Yahuwdym and Gowym,
once exposed to these things,
could choose to be part of that covenant
family.
And so I presented all of these books
and every interview I did,
all open to everyone who might be
interested and hopes that those who were
and had an open mind and were willing
to invest the time to learn could become
part of the covenant family.
But a lot of time has passed since
we began.
And over this quarter of a century,
we have come up against the final harvest
And we've come to learn that Yahowah isn't
looking for a lot of people.
He's actually far more interested in
excluding heaven than he is in including
more souls in it.
Because we're right back to where we were
in the garden.
Most people don't pass muster.
And God's only interested in those who are
observant, who are thoughtful,
who are responsive.
And most of all,
responsible resilient those who make
mistakes and learn from them those who
fall and get back up and there just
isn't enough time left for someone to
begin reading the library at YadaYah.com
every one of the books are free but
there's you know thirty five of them
twenty five thousand pages
you need to understand what's in them if
you're going to be an effective member of
the covenant family and if you're going to
engage in such a way that Yahowah can
determine that you're trustworthy not
enough time for that anymore so we're
going to go into the Shabuwah harvest with
those who have already begun to
demonstrate their worth and we're going to
exclude those who have not
And so the purpose of what we do
now and why I go into such detail
on these things and why we have elevated
the level of our presentation so that it's
going to be way over the head of
the malcontents of those who are excluded
is because our job now is to equip
those who will be working with me and
others during the time of Israel's
troubles.
and then teaching the remnant of Yisrael
during the millennial celebration of
Sukah so that they can earn Yahowah's
trust too.
That's where we are.
And so that requires a level of intensity,
a level of instruction that requires not
only the reading and the processing of
what's in the books,
but of listening to and benefiting from
the teachings offered in these programs
and the insights of them so that they
are better grounded to contribute and more
mature.
All right, so this says, his offspring,
he's speaking of Dowd,
and that which he sows, Zerah,
his descendants and posterity.
will exist and endure oh boy it doesn't
look very good right now does it israel
has made a catastrophic mistake and uh
attacking iran for the second time uh made
a catastrophic mistake and responding to
the provocation of october seventh by the
total destruction of gaza
They've turned the world against them.
They've made a horrendous decision by
partnering with Rahab by Satan incarnate,
Donald Trump.
And if you were to just assess the
likelihood of Israel's survival at this
point,
apart from what we're going to do to
ensure that a remnant endures,
you would say it's impossible.
I mean,
there isn't any expert witness that I am
aware of that thinks that Israel can
survive its current plight,
one that is self-inflicted.
And so this is the message that ultimately
is going to prevail.
So it says his offspring and that which
he sows will exist and endure forever.
from the past and throughout the future.
This only happens,
only happens because of what we're doing.
For we're not for Yahowah,
and for we're not for the work that
we are doing on behalf of Yahowah and
his beloved son, Dowd,
to restore Yahowah's name and reclaim
Dowd's reputation, his place of honor.
the endurance of Israel wouldn't be
possible.
This is the way that is being achieved.
Yahowah is revealing a statement that was
prophetic of this event and the ones that
will follow over the next seven years.
Then it says, and his throne,
this is Kise'.
Kise' means his throne,
his place of honor,
his sovereign authority.
Speaking of Dowd.
And his fully reflective moon.
Even his capacity to conceal and cover.
All of those are definitions of Kise'.
Will be should be compared to the
brilliance of the sun.
Conspicuously made known before me.
as my obvious collaborator and
acknowledged counterpart in my presence,
Mizmowr
Psalm, Eighty-Nine Thirteen.
Can you process that?
So the first part of it,
I've talked to death.
His offspring and that which he sows will
exist and endure forever into the past and
throughout the future.
That means that even though Israel is
being misled badly now,
even though Israel has a fungus and
parasite and the swarm of Haredi and is
rendered useless to God and the Marxists
on the other side.
with forty forty five percent of the
population being unsalvageable and
counterproductive.
And even with them lashing out at all
manner of foe and fighting everybody,
it seems like in the region.
In partnership with the devil,
literally with Satan.
That says that they should all die and
would all die.
They're going to continue to exist,
although it's going to be a finite remnant
of them.
But I'll tell you between now and then
Israel,
you need to know you're only sixty days
from entering the time of trouble.
And that time of trouble is going to
be far worse than the experience in the
Holocaust.
So the majority of you are not gonna
make it.
Now then it says something that is again
extraordinary.
No matter which way or all ways you
define Kise'.
The first would be that his throne will
be as brilliant as the sun.
The next would be his place of honor
and his sovereign authority will be as
sunlight.
The next would be that his full moon,
that great,
that lesser luminary that is reflecting
his light.
Kise' means full moon.
So the fully reflective moon will be as
brilliant as the sun.
As God says,
there's a lesser and greater luminary,
and the Qatan actually means younger of
the two, that they are, in the end,
collaborators.
They're like father and son,
like they're brothers.
They are eternal partners, inseparable.
One a reflection of the other.
So even his fully reflective moon will be
as bright as the sun,
as well as his ability to conceal and
cover.
Conceal and cover have a pejorative,
but they're not.
You know,
before I knew how Dowd went about removing
our guilt on Matsah and carrying it into
Sheowl, never to be seen again,
which is to conceal it.
I looked at the realization that where
there is light, there is no darkness.
Light literally replaces darkness.
There is that symbolism as it would in
respect to cover.
The darkness is covered by the light.
Also, while conceal,
as I have just shared,
is synonymous with Matsah,
Covering is synonymous with Kipurym,
which is the day that Dowd returns with
Yahowah.
kaphar means to cover.
Kipurym means to reconcile in the sense
that all past grievances are covered over.
And so this,
all of these insights are germane,
but how would you know them if you
weren't fully enveloped in God's story?
You have to come to the point where
you recognize all of the characters,
all of the metaphors,
all of the symbols and their
interrelationship and can be in,
make the connections,
Chokmah wisely to comprehend so that you're
in this position to,
reflect the intent of God's message,
because he's saying all of these things.
And then he's saying that the son will
be conspicuously made known in God's
presence, that he'll be Nagyd,
obvious as a collaborator and a
counterpart.
Rather exceptional,
but it doesn't end there.
Remember the first prophecy in the Towrah?
Wasn't just a,
there'll be a a greater luminary and he
alone will serve as the symbol of the
one who is devoted to the Mowedym.
That doesn't say that, does it?
It says there will be a greater and
lesser luminary and that both luminaries
are great.
And that both will serve.
as examples for the Mowedym, Pesach,
Matsah, Bikuwrym, Shaboah, Taruwah, Kaborim,
and Sukah,
because they will volunteer to have
fulfilled them.
So even though Kise' reflects moon,
God wants to make certain that you
understood that association.
So he says similar to, just like,
compared to, in the manner of, ha.
He's also prepared and affirmed as this
will be set in place and established from
long ago.
Yeah, like what?
Three billion years ago,
isn't that when the...
Fourth day of the creative epoch began
four billion years ago.
Yeah, I'd say that's fairly long ago.
And if I'm right about the soul that
was the first man being the firstborn and
therefore God's soul and it being
redeployed,
his soul first appeared six thousand years
ago.
And then mine that came to know Yahowah
through him and then came to earn God's
trust by supporting him as Chanowk would
have been fifty, four hundred years ago.
That would be a long time, right?
That's how long these two have been at
it together.
Kind of like brothers that have been at
each other's side.
Oh, now for a very, very,
very long time.
But when God uses a metaphor,
it walks on all four.
So we are also father and son,
just as we are brothers,
just as we are the sun and the
moon,
just as we are the ram and the
bull.
It runs the gamut with God.
These are the key characters in his story.
So similar to the moon.
is also prepared and affirmed.
As this will be put in place and
established from long ago and forevermore.
The relationship between the greater and
lesser luminaries endures all the way to
the end and past it.
They continue in that relationship
forevermore.
And both the greater and lesser luminaries
Our Ed, they're both restoring witnesses.
They both speak of the eternal testimony.
They both exemplify what it is to restore,
to witness, and to share God's testimony,
as well as what it means to be
immortal.
And God says, those are my guys.
I'm all in with those guys.
They're enduring.
Yeah,
they've been deployed over a long period
of time.
many times they're reliable that's why i
keep on deploying them they're confident
and they're credible well they are to some
and they are to god well i'm on
he's also this restoring witness is the
moon he's also readily verifiable he's
trustworthy he's dependable
And God says,
in the sky among the otherwise
insignificant specks of dust below.
One in a billion, so to speak.
Pause now and contemplate what you have
just read.
Good idea.
Okay,
so in forty-four minutes and fifty
seconds,
I have taken you right back to where
our last program concluded.
And I did so because I realized that
if I didn't do so,
that what I was going to share from
this point on would not have resonated
with you and I would have been a
really lousy teacher.
So here we go.
Ethan,
who is the perpetually reoccurring and
continuously deployed.
Resonate, ring a bell with you.
Ha 'Ezrachy
one coming forth as a tree to narrate
these events.
Now Yada will have completed his recent
stint as one of the two Ed Restoring
Witnesses during the conclusion of the
Time of Trouble.
His Ed testimony will endure and remain
reliable as he is forever confident and
credible.
Now this is one of the many times
that the sun and the moon are joined
together in this way,
and there are many of them.
That's how I'm rewriting the final volume
of Coming Home, Maowr Luminaries,
is because they are really woven into
God's story.
And you can't just go to the passage
that says, oh, well, there they are,
because then you'll miss the entire setup
for how God intends to use them.
So here God is saying that the moon,
representing an individual like the sun,
will be prepared to affirm and reestablish
his credibility and Dowd's responsibility.
Make no mistake,
it was Dowd's seat of honor,
Dowd's responsibility,
Dowd's authorization,
Dowd's very existence,
that is going to return as brilliant as
the sun and God's presence.
So this brilliance of the sun is being
equated directly to a man.
The greater luminary is a man.
The man is Dowd.
And therefore the moon who is now being
equated to the man is the one who
most adroitly,
most continuously reflects
The king's credibility reestablishes it,
reflects his brilliance.
He's Yada,
there's no other candidate for it.
It's obvious if your eyes are open,
if your mind is open,
unless you're just a malcontent and then
nothing that God says will matter to you.
So the moon is also an individual.
And he's prepared to affirm and establish
his credibility and Dowd's responsibility.
He will continue to reflect the sun's
life.
And at this point,
he is reestablishing it.
That's the whole point of the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr.
The sun had been eclipsed.
So just as the Earth's satellite mirrors
the sun's brilliance when our star is
otherwise unseen at night,
that is what's happening here.
Dowd went dark amongst his people,
amongst the world,
as they stole everything that was
important to his brilliance.
And now it is the lesser luminary,
the moon,
that has restored all of that so it
can be seen again for all that it
means to humankind.
And that's why this individual being
associated with Dowd,
albeit less luminous,
is called an enduring and reliable,
even loyal witness.
Now, as I have shared,
and now we're going to reestablish,
the relationship being established between
Dowd and Yada, the sun and the moon,
the greater and lesser luminaries,
is absolutely essential to understanding
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr and how they are
collaborating at this moment,
but also the creation account, indeed,
even the story of the Garden of Eden,
and particularly as it relates to the
covenant presentation
and the Mowedym pronouncements and
fulfillments.
We serve Yahowah's interests and those of
his people.
We deliver what God wants accomplished,
when he wants it done, and when, where,
and how.
We have been unified in the past and
are inseparable throughout the future.
So please.
I would recommend doing as Yahowah's asked.
Pause now and reflect on what God has
said about his son, the sun,
and his witness, the moon.
So, now turning to the first prophecy.
God said, with impending implications,
there will be mayor.
Luminaries as sources of light.
Ma, to ponder the implications of,
or illumination.
In the expanse of the heavens.
To understand the separation between the
time of light as it is distinct from
the darkness of the night.
They will exist as symbols and signs,
even as illustrious examples,
and for the appointed meeting times for
the restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimony,
as well as for the days and for
the years, can you say,
for the timeline to develop.
Therefore,
they will exist for the enlightenment
or they will exist for enlightenment as
luminaries, ma’owroth,
to firmly extend the presence of the
spiritual realm, to be an owr, a light,
to provide illumination and enlightenment
upon and over Ha erets, the earth.
And therefore,
it will continue to exist like this
thereafter, based upon what preceded it.
That is Bare’syth,
one-fifteen and one-fourteen.
God,
he acted and he engaged to a point
for this particular task.
What pertains to these two ,
these two sources of illumination and
enlightenment, who are Gadowlym,
who are both substantial and empowering.
They're both important and influential.
With Ha Gadowl,
the greater and most distinguished,
as well as the older, of the Ha Maowr,
the luminary, memshalah,
prominent and powerful,
having dominion and authority,
as the one governing as sovereign,
of the illuminated time.
And the Ha Qatan, the lesser, younger,
and more recent ha-mayor, luminary.
memshalah, prominent and powerful,
having dominion and authority,
the one authorized to lead through
illustrative insights.
Through the time of darkness,
when the light is not known,
among the heavenly powers.
The Almighty, he offered them as a gift,
placing them in this position for this
purpose,
in the vast expanse and extensive and
solid evidence of the spiritual realm to
provide light and enlightenment upon the
land and upon the earth.
It's sixteen and seventeen of the first
chapter of Bare’syth.
includes in the eighteenth verse.
And to govern.
Showing leadership by offering proverbial,
illustrative and memorial memorable
pictures.
Comprised of words.
During the light of the day and through
the darkness of night,
providing a contrast to set apart or
expelled by severing association.
through understanding and discernment and
by making intelligent connections leading
to comprehending the light and
comprehending the interval of time such
that you understand even in the darkness.
God, he saw that this indeed was good.
It was beneficial and productive.
Stamp of approval on those two.
Bare’syth in the beginning, Genesis,
one eighteen.
Now it is profoundly important relative to
understanding prophecy that we correctly
process the implications of what God
intends to accomplish through these two
luminaries.
And at this point,
it should be sufficiently clear that the
brighter of the two is Dowd.
with Yada shown reflecting the King's
light as he fulfills the Mowedym.
And to think all of this was foreseen
just as life was emerging on our planet
and then shared with us.
Well,
there's yet another enlightening
connection between these men and the
symbols representing them.
And this one is presented in the hundred
and fourth Mizmowr.
It reads,
the most highly exalted mountains are to
approach that which prevails and is
beneficial as an elevated rocky crag and
is a trusted shelter to seek protection
with the treasured scribe.
The moon will act and engage for Yada
knows and acknowledges the sun's arrival
as the eternal witness to the restoring
appointments.
Mizmowr, one oh four, nineteen.
Well,
so these metaphors portray the proper
perspective to view the relationship
between these individuals.
By describing Dowd as the most important
luminary on earth,
Yahowah is conveying that the king's lives
are important markers in time.
Even the dates pursuant to when Dowd and
Yada will fulfill the seven Mowedym,
they're all predicted and predicated upon
how we view these luminaries.
For example,
it was in the fullness of the moon's
light
that Dowd fulfilled Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
And it will be under the light of
a full moon that we will camp out
with our king during Sukah.
Even as the sun is eclipsed,
as the moon fulfills Taruwah.
Pretty amazing, isn't it?
So we have reached the turning point in
Dowd's song.
And by the way,
we're gonna return to many,
many more instances of the sun and the
moon and how their interplay in this story
work through God's timeline.
But for now,
we're still finishing and focusing upon
the Eighty-Ninth Mizmowr as the turning
point in Dowd's life when his relationship
with Yahowah was restored so that he could
live up to the brilliance that God had
in store for him.
So while Yahowah continues,
to be the one delivering the message.
And while his focus is still on his
son, Dowd,
as the brightest light in proximity to
earth,
God's concern now is over those who would
deny and degradate all that Dowd
represents and has achieved,
particularly among his people.
The attack now,
is against the religions of Judaism and of
Christianity,
because they've done more to debilitate
what Dowd has accomplished than any others.
So this condition remains pervasive with
Jews,
but it is also rampant among Gentiles.
And it becomes even more aggravating when
we realize that many of the promises made
to Dowd were also made to his people.
From being the children of God and the
heirs to the covenant to being recipients
of the land.
His joys and heartaches,
his ongoing battles, his insights,
as well as his confusion.
The benefits he enjoyed in concert with
the covenant and the consequences he
endured when running afoul of it are all
shared.
between the Messiah and the nation he
shepherded.
So this next assessment,
it is also congruent with and runs
parallel to second Samuel seven,
because after all it is Israel who has,
but now you yourselves,
you have become stagnant and rancid,
foul and loathsome,
for having refused to accept and have
pushed aside, even rejecting and spurning,
disassociating from by repudiating on your
own initiative to get rid of while
presumptively passing over your Messiah.
Oh, a dagger to the heart.
To Christians, to Jews,
in Mizmowr Psalm, eighty-nine,
thirty-eight.
After saying everything possible that
could be used to acclaim the essential
nature of Dowd, as the chosen one,
as God's firstborn son,
as the anointed Messiah,
as the king and returning sovereign of the
world, as our savior,
as the one who enabled the benefits of
the covenant.
a Zarowa, a Passover lamb.
After saying all of these things,
that Dowd is his beloved,
the person of promise, God says,
in spite of everything I have told you
about him,
even telling you that if any aspect of
this that I have said about Dowd does
not pertain to Dowd,
then not only am I a proven a
liar, but I will have failed.
And now God has to tell you that
you yourselves have been stagnant and
rancid,
foul and loathsome because you have
refused to accept and you have pushed
aside your Messiah.
You have rejected and spurning.
You've rejected and spurned him.
You've disassociated from him by
repudiating him.
Neither Christians nor Jews accept Dowd as
their Messiah.
And yet he is the only one that
Yahowah said,
you should accept as your Messiah because
I myself anointed him as Messiah.
It says on your own initiative,
you have presumptively passed over your
Messiah.
Oh my God.
I mean, this obliterates Christianity,
obliterates Judaism.
I mean, a bar even being used here.
You know what a bar is the root
of?
It's the actionable root of Pesach,
to Passover.
And it was the Messiah that fulfilled
Passover in your four thousand yon,
thirty-three CE.
In the long litany of poor decisions over
the millennium,
this is among the most condemning.
As frustrating as it had to be for
God to endure the constant caustic
rejection of those he was trying to save
between Mitsraym and the promised land,
as appalling as it was and must have
been to witness their love affair with
their own words and religions as he was
speaking directly to them and then through
Moshe to them, this was worse.
It's not just that Yahowah loves Dowd.
It's that God's son made the ultimate
sacrifice for his people.
He told them what he was going to
do a thousand years in advance,
and yet they rejected him anyway,
and denied everything that he represents,
including his fulfillment of Chag Matsah.
And then they replaced him with a false
messiah.
Now, three thousand years later,
they still haven't come to their senses.
This is an exceedingly harsh and graphic
rebuke,
reflecting the full measure of God's
animosity.
He had obviously peered well into the
future to see how his son would be
received by his people,
and he would become,
he knows they would become septic.
putrefying as an untreated wound.
They had a rancid stench and still do.
They would reject their savior,
reputing everything God had to say about
him.
And in the process,
they would forego the covenant passing
past the Passover lamb.
They would search for a Messiah and savior
while disavowing the genuine article.
Sure, it's obvious.
Jesus wasn't a Messiah.
He didn't even exist.
But nor was Bar Kokhba.
HaMaseach, the Messiah, is dead.
to promote, to believe in, to worship,
or to claim another by any name is
to be perceived as odious by God and
to be spurned by him,
with only the Towrah before him.
In his present funk,
Dowd needed this bold assessment from God
to discern
what now seems so obvious to us.
His father was positioning him to be the
greatest among men, Elyown.
And when he perceived the benefits and
accepted the offer,
so that we would know of it and
be able to capitalize upon this gift,
Dowd, or Yahowah took Dowd,
forward in time as well,
so that he could witness what he would
achieve, and then he would write of it.
The lone eyewitness accounts were all
scribed in first person,
and they're found in Mizmowr Psalms,
and if that were not enough,
each of the first thirty songs sung by
Dowd addresses this decision to serve in
this manner,
the crowning jewel of the eighty-ninth
Mizmowr.
this song, Dowd's song,
where all of this is made so very
obvious for him and now for us is
an embarrassment to Israel and to Yahuwdym,
God's people,
because they have passed over all of these
bold pronouncements.
And as a result,
they have rejected their Messiah.
Denial of God's attestation that Dowd is
the son of God, our returning king,
the Messiah,
and our savior results in being rejected
by God.
Nullifying the gift of life they have been
so generously offered leaves them with no
excuse,
no benefit whatsoever to Christianity or
Judaism.
They're both counterproductive.
Yahowah has affirmed this profound truth
through his prophets so many times and so
many ways that it is befuddling that as
few as one in a million Yahuwdym
acknowledge Dowd as their Messiah,
or that five billion Gowym bequeath a
Greek misappropriation of his title to a
crude counterfeit.
After enduring two thousand years of
harassment for failing to accept Jesus as
their Lord,
it turns out Jews were correct in
rejecting the mythical misnomer.
Now it's time to take the next step
and recognize that Ha Mashyach is Dowd.
And that it is only through him that
the family can be reconciled.
Now, if you're a descendant of Ya'aqob,
pause and reflect upon this.
Almost everything religious and secular
Jews have claimed regarding Dowd, David,
the Mashyach and fulfillment of the Mowedym
is untrue.
It's all upended and incongruent.
So it's long past time to consider and
accept God's point of view and to embrace
what Dowd represents.
He is not only Hamasiach, the Messiah,
but also our savior.
for having fulfilled Pesach, Passover,
as the Ayil, opening the door to life.
Do not pass over him in some ill-conceived
attempt to pay homage to Judaism,
cultural traditions, or mores.
Now I understand that Yahuwdym have been
plagued over the centuries by those who
have tormented them under the false belief
that Jesus Christ was the Messiah.
And because Christians blame Jews for
killing their God,
the very idea of the Messiah being the
son of God and fulfilling Passover by
being crucified by Rome, well,
that's a bit disorienting.
I understand that.
And while there has never been any
objective support for the Christian myth,
There has been incalculable harm
perpetrated under that delusion.
While Christ is the deadliest and most
damning fraud ever perpetrated,
the truth is sweet revenge.
The Messiah returned, and he,
as the Son of God, fulfilled Pesach,
Matsah,
and Bikuwrym to enable the benefits of the
covenant.
One does not have to change his name
or append his identity to claim any of
the many hundreds of prophecies which
acknowledge those greatness.
They're all there.
They're all properly attested.
I mean,
second only to removing Yahowah's name,
seven thousand times from his testimony in
the Towrah, Nabym Wa Mismowr.
This error in judgment and this lapse in
scholastic rigor
has caused more harm to Yahuwdym Jews than
any other.
They have rejected the only soul capable
of restoring their soul.
And they have frustrated the only God
capable of saving them.
And the actual identity and purpose of
Yahowah's Messiah has been acknowledged
throughout the Psalm and throughout the
prophets, throughout the Mizmowr,
even in the Towrah.
And had Jews not committed this crime of
denying their Messiah,
and denying that Dowd was their Messiah,
and that he came exactly when he said
he was going to,
to do exactly what he said he was
going to do,
then he would never have been replaced by
Jesus Christ,
and Christianity's New Testament wouldn't
have fooled anyone.
There would have been no diaspora and no
Holocaust.
As I have shared,
affirming this heartbreaking reality,
the hit pile stem modifying a bar passing
over your Messiah proves it.
This uncommon designation reveals that the
religious were not coerced.
They rejected God on their own initiative,
equally telling a bar as the verbal root
of peace.
It equates the rejection of the Messiah
with the fort with foregoing the benefits
of Passover.
So reminding Yisrael of their fall as a
result of the religions they begot.
And as a consequence of those they
beguiled,
Yahowah searched that by denying the
Messiah,
they were renouncing the covenant he had
established by fulfilling Chag Matsah.
We will conclude with this comment.
speaking to his people or to the world
at large after underscoring everything
that was important for us to know about
Down being the messiah and returning king
our savior god said you have repudiated
and renounced you have disavowed refusing
to even acknowledge and you actually lack
respect for you have spurned and nullified
the covenant with your co-worker
You have dishonored and defiled.
You've treated with contempt.
His dedication and unique standing,
even his crown,
throughout the land and the earth.
And they have.
And they continue to.
And until this is resolved,
most will pay the ultimate price.
This is the message we are sharing with
God's people,
recognizing that very few of them will
heed it until their backs are against the
wall and they have no one else to
whom to turn.
When they realize that their IDF is not
saving them,
and their politicians are misleading them,
that the rabbis have defrauded them.
and that the Marxists and their mix have
no answers for them.
It's only then that they will listen to
what God has to say and benefit from
it.
But in advance of that,
so that we know it,
so that we can share it with them,
so that we're prepared when the time
comes,
I am reinforcing all of this with you.
And for that, I appreciate you listening.
Good day.
Hey there, thanks for tuning in.
That was Fetch.
Gotta run now.
Catch y'all on our next podcast.